Platelet aggregation inhibitors help prevent heart attacks and strokes
by decreasing excessive blood clotting.
They do this by preventing platelets from becoming sticky and clumping.
Platelets are blood cells that naturally collect to form clots
and stop bleeding when there is damage to cells.
When platelets form clots in the blood vessels,
this can restrict or block blood flow in vessels.
This can lead to strokes and heart attacks.
Platelet aggregation inhibitors once active
prevent platelets from clumping.
These drugs bind to platelets for its entire life,
about seven to ten days.
Consequently, platelets can only clump
when the body releases new platelets into circulation
that haven't bee affected by the drug.